MARKWARDT IDL PROGRAMS
INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS

Craig Markwardt
craigm@cow.physics.wisc.edu
31 Jan 2000

The following instructions apply to all functions and procedures
included in the Markwardt IDL library.

DOWNLOADING

Download new versions of from Craig Markwardt's web page:

http://cow.physics.wisc.edu/~craigm/idl/idl.html

Program modification dates appear on the web page, which you can
compare agains your own copy.  You can also check the modification
history of the file itself to see how recent it is.


COMPATIBILITY

All programs are intended to be compatible with both Unix, Windows and
MacIntosh versions of IDL, unless otherwise noted.  If you are
downloading archive, then the most suitable archive file type can be
found from this chart, depending on your operating system:

    Windows     ZIP archive          (must have unzipping utility)
    MacIntosh   ZIP archive          (must have unzipping utility)
    Unix        TAR or ZIP archive   (must have gunzip or unzip utility)


INSTALLATION

Program files should be placed in your IDL PATH.  You may either copy
them to an existing directory in your path, or else create a new
directory for them to reside in.  Please see your IDL documentation
for instructions on how to add directories to your IDL path.

You may read the individual program's documentation, stored with the
program itself, for more information on usage.

If the files you downloaded came in an archive, you must unarchive
them.  It is recommended that you unarchive them into a separate
directory for convenience's sake.

For Windows and MacIntosh systems, you should use an appropriate
unzipping utility to expand the ZIP archive you downloaded.

For Unix systems, you should use one of the following commands,
whichever is appropriate:

gzip -dc <archive>.tar.gz | tar xvf -        (for TAR file;   or...)
unzip <archive>.zip                          (for ZIP file)

where <archive> is the name of the archive you downloaded.

IDL is a registered trademark of RSI

